In the last lecture we played around with flex box to position this and we will do more flexible styling
over this course and I can only encourage you to do it on your own too
but now let's focus on styling these text inputs,
they don't look that great, do they? The reason for this is that by default, placeholders are not respected,
so actually it takes as much space as needed by default and that's basically zero,
so we have to set some default space for that
and there are different approaches of doing that.
Now the first approach you could use is you define some input property in your stylesheet and there
you set the width to maybe 300, 300 pixels,
you can now go to your text input, add the style property and bind it to styles input.
Now I'm going to do this for all three of them
and besides the code duplication we have here which we'll fix later,
one issue we'll face is that now it looks good
but what if we had a device that is actually not wide enough, that doesn't have a width of 300 pixels,
what would then happen?
It wouldn't look great because we would try to make it wider then we can,
so hardcoding pixel values like these
sometimes is necessary, sometimes makes sense but should be done with care.
Now we will later learn how to find out how much space we have available and then this is better
because then we can rule out that we try to assign a value that is more than we have available
but a better approach might be to use a relative value, so we can convert this to maybe 80%
and please note that this then has to be a string.
So if we set this to 80%, now it takes 80% of the available width
and that of course is much better because that can never be too much because it's always just 80%
of what we got,
so this already looks much better here.
Now of course you noticed that as soon as we set this up, our placeholders here are no longer nicely
centered but that simply happens because now we have a default width which is more or broader than these
placeholders are,
so the overall text input which we can't see on iOS is centered and not the placeholder but that's all
right here,
that's actually the behavior that makes more sense. An alternative to the approach shown here would
be to wrap our text inputs into some view
like this and then define like an input container, input container here
where we set a width of maybe 80%
and now I assign this here
so style equals styles input container
and for each input, we could then set the style to 100%.
If we now save this, we get the same look as before,
so what's the advantage of this approach.
The advantage is that we could now create our own reusable input component which has some default styles
if we wanted to add more styles and we could always use width 100% which makes our input far more
reusable because we can use it anywhere in the application because in some places, we want 60%,
in others, we want 80%.
If we controlled it with the container, the input itself stays independent which is the better approach
in my opinion because again if we outsource the text input into a pre-styled custom component, something
I'll do in a second,
then this makes it far easier to reuse it.
So that's why I'll go for this approach here with the input container.
Now with that we got our text input set up, we got a width that makes sense. In the next lecture,
let's now dive into how we can use custom components for styling reasons.